Slugathon features two incentives for players, karma and ranking.  Karma
reflects how friendly the player is to others.  Ranking reflects the
player's skill.


KARMA

Karma is affected by actions such as the following:
+ Finishing a game
+ Playing quickly
- Dropping connection from a game
- Withdrawing from a game
- Playing slowly
+ Making other players happy
- Annoying other players
+ Letting AIs use your computer (if we support that and it's optional)
+ Running the server (Ops should probably be exempt from karma.)

"Completing" is a bit hard to measure, because one obvious implementation
(you won or got killed trying) rewards committing suicide with your titan
stack over withdrawing.  And the other obvious implementation (you won or
were in the game until the end) rewards skill.  Perhaps we need to have
the players still present vote, which merges this somewhat with "making
other players happy."

Uses of karma:
A gentle nudge to do the right thing
Players can specify a minimum karma when starting a new game.
A way to distinguish experienced players from newbies
Incentive not to throw away an account with a bad ranking and start over

Karma should start at zero.  There should be a cap, or certain bad actions
should take away a percentage of karma rather than a fixed amount, so a
player can't get accumulate so much that he's in no danger of going
negative even if he starts acting consistently bad.


RANKING

Ranking is affected purely by game results.  We need something like ELO
or AREA, that works with variable number of players (the more players in
the game, the less the expected win ratio) and draws.  There might be a
very small bonus per game finished, to prevent rating deflation as new
players come in and improve.

If a player drops and someone takes over for him, we need a fair
way to allocate the result between the two.  Dividing the result
between the two based on the number of turns each played, but that's
unfair because a lot of damage can be done in one bad turn.  A better
way is to penalize players who drop and reward players who fill in by
giving the fill-in player any result that helps him (so he'd almost
always take a win, probably take a draw unless it was against much worse
players, and almost never take a loss) and give remaining results to the
original player.  If a position gets dropped and picked up multiple times,
this could get complicated.  The player who finishes the game should get
first choice, then we might need to "punish" all players who dropped
equally.

If a player drops then picks up his own position, that shouldn't count
as a drop, unless someone else subbed in the meantime.

Uses of ranking:
Bragging rights
Incentive to play well and seriously
Players can specify minimum and maximum rankings when starting a new
  game, to encourage even games.
Perhaps we could allow handicaps (e.g. more mulligans) to make games
  between uneven players more interesting.  (Maybe not -- a handicapped
  game should affect ranking differently than a fair game, and getting
  this right might be hard.)



NOTES

Games played solely against AI opponents shouldn't affect ranking or
karma.  Games played against a mix of human and AI opponents should not
be allowed to unduly inflate ranking.

Ranking and karma will initially be local to the individual server, rather
than global across all servers.  This is easier to implement, encourages
players to clump on a few servers rather than spreading out over many
private ones (good for communication and variety of opponents), and
prohibits cheating server operators from affecting global results.

Ranking and karma need to be saved across server downtime.  Maybe in a
Twisted .tap file; maybe in a database or simple text file.

We should hold off on enabling ranking and karma until the game is
stable.  It wouldn't be fair to have them affected by bugs, and having
to constantly edit them would get old.

